1
Check Odd or Even

Write a python function is_even that takes a number as input and returns True if it’s even, otherwise False.

Correct!


2
Check for Free Delivery!

For an e-commerce platform Candy, orders above $50 qualify for free delivery.

Write a python function check_free_delivery to check if the order qualifies for a free delivery!

If the order is eligible for a free delivery, return 'Yay, free delivery!'.

Otherwise return 'Oops, no free delivery!'.

Correct!


3
Check Eligibility for Discounts

A customer is eligible for a discount if they either spend more than ₹5000 or have a membership and spend more than ₹3000. Write the expression to calculate if the customer is eligible for a discount.

Correct!

4
Detect a Quadratic Equation

For an equation ax^2 + bx + c = 0, it's quadratic if a ≠ 0. Write a function is_quadratic(a, b, c) to return True if it's a quadratic equation and False otherwise.

Correct!

5
Check Voting Eligibility

A person can vote if they are -

18 years old or older.
A citizen of the country.
Write an expression that checks if a person satisfies these conditions.

Correct!

6
Calculate Grade Based on Marks

Given a student's marks out of 100:

If marks ≥ 90, the grade is A.
If marks ≥ 75, the grade is B.
If marks ≥ 50, the grade is C.
Otherwise, the grade is F.
Complete the program to calculate and print the grade.

Correct!

7
Calculate Compound Interest

Write a function to calculate compound interest using the formula:

C
I
=
P
×
(
1
+
R
100
)
T
−
P

Where: - (P): Principal amount (the initial sum of money)

(R): Annual interest rate (in percentage)

(T): Time period (in years)

Correct!


8
Eras Tour Ticket Revenue Analysis!

The Taylor Swift Eras Tour has sold tickets across three seating categories: General Admission, VIP, and Ultra VIP. The ticket sales data is as follows:

General Admission: 25,000 tickets at $100 each

VIP: 5,000 tickets at $250 each

Ultra VIP: 1,000 tickets at $500 each

Additionally, a 5% service charge is applied to the total revenue from ticket sales.

You need to calculate the following:

The total revenue (before the service charge).
The final revenue (after deducting the service charge).
Check if the final revenue crossed the $10,000,000 milestone.
Correct!


9
Discount Calculator for a Shopping Spree

You are shopping online and have three items in your cart. The store offers discounts based on the total price:

If the total cost is greater than ₹5000, you get a 20% discount.
If the total cost is between ₹3000 and ₹5000 (both inclusive), you get a 10% discount.
Otherwise, no discount is applied.
Complete the program to calculate and print the final price after applying the discount.

Correct!


10
Split the Bill with Friends

You and your friends went to a restaurant and ordered food. You want to split the bill equally, but there's a condition:

If the total bill is perfectly divisible among the group, each person pays an equal amount.
If the total bill is not divisible by the number of people, round the total bill up to the nearest ₹100 (i.e 1234 becomes 1300).
After rounding, if the bill is still not perfectly divisible by the number of friends, round up the amount each person has to pay to the next whole number.
Define a program Split_Bill that takes the bill amount and the number of friends as input and calculates the total adjusted bill and the amount that each person needs to pay.

Correct!


11
Weekend Road Trip Decision

You and your friends are planning a weekend road trip. Here's the situation:

Weather condition: The weather should not be rainy.
Car availability: At least one of you or your friend should have a car.
Budget: The total budget should be at least ₹5000, and both of you should have money to contribute.
If all the above conditions are satisfied your program should return Pack your bags! You're going on the road trip!,. Otherwise, it should return Stay home and plan for another time..

Complete the program to determine the outcome.

Correct!

12
Secret Code Lock

You have discovered an ancient treasure chest, but it’s locked with a 3-digit secret code. Each digit of the code ranges from 1 to 9.

Here's what you know:

The sum of the three digits is equal to 15.
All three digits are different.
You need to complete the python program find_secret_codes that satisfies both the above conditions.

Note : The combinations must be unique. For example, if one combination is 1, 5, 9, other combinations like 5, 1, 9 or 9, 5, 1 should not be included.

Correct!
