1
Decide whether a continuous (C) random variable is the best for each of the following variables:


Number of heads when flipping three coins.


The temperature of a cup of coffee served at a restaurant.


The time until a projectile returns to Earth.


The volume of gasoline that is lost to evaporation during the filling of a gas tank.

Correct!


2
Identify the type of random variable and the set of possible values for each random variable. (Make a reasonable estimate based on experience, where necessary.)

The number of heads in two tosses of a coin.


Continuous random variables


Discrete random variables

Correct!


3
Identify the type of random variable and the set of possible values for each random variable. (Make a reasonable estimate based on experience, where necessary.)

The amount of liquid in a 12 -ounce can of soft drink.


Discrete random variables


Continuous random variables

Correct!


In some cases, the random variable X is actually discrete but, because the range of possible values is so large, it might be more convenient to analyze X as a continuous random variable.

Example 1: Define X to be 1 if a bead is blue and red otherwise.

import numpy as np

x = np.array(["red", "blue"])
beads=np.repeat(x, [2, 3], axis=0)

def beads_x():
    sample=np.random.choice(beads)
    if sample=="blue":
        x=1
    else:
        x=0
    return x
Here X is a random variable: every time we select a new bead the outcome changes randomly.

beads_x()
4
Consider a game where a fair six-sided die is rolled.

Complete the function and run it in the notebook. The function should return a random integer between 1 and 6 (both inclusive).

import numpy as np

def roll_die():
    pass  # Generates a random integer between 1 and 6 (inclusive)
Correct!


5
Consider a scenario where a coin is flipped.

Complete the function and execute it in the notebook. The function should return 0 or 1.

import numpy as np

def flip_coin():
    pass  # Returns 1 if the outcome is heads, 0 otherwise
Correct!
